Doc/widgets.en.md, before:

# WebPlatform

[[عربي]](widgets.ar.md)

[[Back]](../readme.md)

## Widgets

### Widget

The base class for all widgets.

#### Variables

* `id` a unique identifier to distinguish each widget from the other.

#### Properties

* `className`: `String`. Class name of the widget, used for applying styles by class name.

#### Events

##### onResize

```
def onResize: DomEventSignal[Widget, Int];
```

Signals that the widget's dimensions changed.

##### onMouseMove

```
def onMouseMove: DomEventSignal[Widget, MouseMovePayload];
```

Signals that the cursor moved over the widget.

##### onMouseEnter

```
def onMouseEnter: DomEventSignal[Widget, Int];
```

Signals that the cursor entered the widget's region.

##### onMouseOut

```
def onMouseOut: DomEventSignal[Widget, Int];
```

Signals that the cursor exited the widget's region.

##### onMouseDown

```
def onMouseDown: DomEventSignal[Widget, MouseButtonPayload];
```

Signals that the mouse button has been pressed.

##### onMouseUp

```
def onMouseUp: DomEventSignal[Widget, MouseButtonPayload];
```

Signals that the mouse button has been released.

##### onClick

```
def onClick: DomEventSignal[Widget, Int];
```

Signals that a mouse click occurred.


#### Operations

##### style

```
handler this.style: SrdRef[StyleSet];
handler this.style = SrdRef[StyleSet];
```

This property allows updating the style of the widget. You can assign a StyleSet object to it, which
will be useful in sharing styles between multiple instances of a widget. If you try to update the
styles without setting a StyleSet upfront it will create a new StyleSet object for this widget and
return it.

##### getDimensions

```
handler this.getDimensions(): Dimensions;
```

A method to get the widget's dimensions.

##### requestPointerLock

```
handler this.requestPointerLock();
```

Requests for locking the pointer to the specified widget. This results in hiding the mouse cursor
and sending all mouse actions to this widget, which is useful for developing games.

##### requestFullScreen

```
handler this.requestFullScreen();
```

Requests to activate full screen mode for this widget. This will result in this widget being
enlarged to full the entire screen.

##### scrollIntoView

```
handler this.scrollIntoView();
```

Requets the browser to be scrolled to the element on which the method is called.


### Box

This class represents a rectangle area that contains other widgets.

#### Variables

* `children`: `Array[SrdRef[Widget]]`. The array of widgets contained in this class.

#### Operations

##### addChildren

A method to add a new child or more to this box.

parameters:

* `count` number of children we want to add.

* `children` the children we want to add, which are widgets.

##### removeChildren

A method to remove children from this box.

parameters:

* `count` number of children we want to remove.

* `children` the children we want to remove, which are widgets.


### Canvas

This represents an area to be used for free drawing.

#### Variables

* `resourceId`: `ArchInt`. a unique identifier to distinguish each canvas from the other. 

#### Mixins

* `drawing`: `Drawing`. This mixin adds support for drawing operatios to this class. Visit the
  documentation of `Drawing` for details about available operations.

#### Properties

* `bitmapWidth`: `SrdRef[Length]`. The width of the drawing area.

* `bitmapHeight`: `SrdRef[Length]`. The height of the drawing area.


### Image

A class that represents an image.

#### Properties

* `url`: `String`. The URL of the image's source.


### Text

A class for displaying static text.

#### Properties

* `text`: `String`. The text of this component.

* `targetId`: `String`. The identifier of the object that is linked to this text, for example a text
  beside text input field that tell us that this text input is for username.


### Button

Displays a button.

#### Properties

* `text`: `String`. The text we want to show on the button.


### TextInput

A text entry box.

#### Properties

* `text`: `String`. The entered text.

#### Events

##### onChanged

```
def onChanged: DomEventSignal[TextInput, Int];
```

Gets fired when the entered text changes.

##### onKeyPress

```
def onKeyPress: DomEventSignal[TextInput, String];
```

Gets fired when a key is pressed.


##### onKeyUp

```
def onKeyUp: DomEventSignal[TextInput, String];
```

Gets fired when we a keypress ends.


### Input

A user input field.

#### Properties

* `text`: `String`. The entered value.

* `inputType`: `String`. The type of input values.

* `placeholder`: `String`. A value that appears before the user enters anything, to clarify what
  to enter.

#### Events

##### onChanged

```
def onChanged: DomEventSignal[Input, Int];
```

Gets fired when the entered value changes.

##### onKeyPress

```
def onKeyPress: DomEventSignal[Input, String];
```

Gets fired when a key is pressed.

##### onKeyUp

```
def onKeyUp: DomEventSignal[Input, String];
```

Gets fired when we a keypress ends.


### Select

A widget that displays a multi-choice input.

#### Properties

* `items`: `Map[String, String]`. The choices we want the user to choose from.

#### Events

##### onChanged

```
def onChanged: DomEventSignal[Select, Int];
```

Gets fired when the selected value is changed.

#### Operations

##### getSelectedValue

```
handler this.getSelectedValue(): String;
```

Returns the value of the currently selected item.

##### selectValue

```
handler this.selectValue(newValue: String);
```

Changes the current selection.


### Hyperlink

A class that displays a hyperlink.

#### Properties

* `url`: `String`. The address of the target page.

* `child`: `SrdRef[Widget]`. The widget contained in the hyperlink, like a text or an image.

* `newTab`: `Bool`. Determins if the address will be opened in a new tab or the current one.

#### Operations

##### setChild

```
handler this.setChild (child: temp_ref[SrdRef[Widget]]);
```

Sets the child component of this hyperlink.

parameters:

* `child` the widget we want displayed inside the hyperlink.


### DocView

A class used to show an HTML or Markdown document.

#### Operations

##### setHtml

```
handler this.setHtml(html: String);
```

Sets an HTML document as the scene.

##### setMarkdown

```
handler this.setMarkdown(md: String);
handler this.setMarkdown(md: String, linksInNewTab: Bool);
```

Sets a Markdown document as the scene. The second form allows specifying whether hyperlinks in the
document opens in the same browser tab or a new one. The first form opens links in the same tab.


## Related Classes

### MouseMovePayload

```
class MouseMovePayload {
    def posX: Float = 0;
    def posY: Float = 0;
    def deltaX: Float = 0;
    def deltaY: Float = 0;
}
```

A class that holds mouse move payload information.

`posX` cursor x coordinate.

`posY` cursor y coordinate.

`deltaX` the change in position on x axis.

`deltaY` the change in position on y axis.


### MouseButtonPayload

```
class MouseButtonPayload {
    def button: Int = 0;
    def posX: Float = 0;
    def posY: Float = 0;
}
```

A class that holds mouse button payload information.

`button` the clicked button.

`posX` cursor x coordinate.

`posY` cursor y coordinate.

Commit message:

Added Browser widget.
Added a browser widget to load web pages within an area
of a parent page.

Doc/widgets.en.md, after:

# WebPlatform

[[عربي]](widgets.ar.md)

[[Back]](../readme.md)

## Widgets

### Widget

The base class for all widgets.

#### Variables

* `id` a unique identifier to distinguish each widget from the other.

#### Properties

* `className`: `String`. Class name of the widget, used for applying styles by class name.

#### Events

##### onResize

```
def onResize: DomEventSignal[Widget, Int];
```

Signals that the widget's dimensions changed.

##### onMouseMove

```
def onMouseMove: DomEventSignal[Widget, MouseMovePayload];
```

Signals that the cursor moved over the widget.

##### onMouseEnter

```
def onMouseEnter: DomEventSignal[Widget, Int];
```

Signals that the cursor entered the widget's region.

##### onMouseOut

```
def onMouseOut: DomEventSignal[Widget, Int];
```

Signals that the cursor exited the widget's region.

##### onMouseDown

```
def onMouseDown: DomEventSignal[Widget, MouseButtonPayload];
```

Signals that the mouse button has been pressed.

##### onMouseUp

```
def onMouseUp: DomEventSignal[Widget, MouseButtonPayload];
```

Signals that the mouse button has been released.

##### onClick

```
def onClick: DomEventSignal[Widget, Int];
```

Signals that a mouse click occurred.


#### Operations

##### style

```
handler this.style: SrdRef[StyleSet];
handler this.style = SrdRef[StyleSet];
```

This property allows updating the style of the widget. You can assign a StyleSet object to it, which
will be useful in sharing styles between multiple instances of a widget. If you try to update the
styles without setting a StyleSet upfront it will create a new StyleSet object for this widget and
return it.

##### getDimensions

```
handler this.getDimensions(): Dimensions;
```

A method to get the widget's dimensions.

##### requestPointerLock

```
handler this.requestPointerLock();
```

Requests for locking the pointer to the specified widget. This results in hiding the mouse cursor
and sending all mouse actions to this widget, which is useful for developing games.

##### requestFullScreen

```
handler this.requestFullScreen();
```

Requests to activate full screen mode for this widget. This will result in this widget being
enlarged to full the entire screen.

##### scrollIntoView

```
handler this.scrollIntoView();
```

Requets the browser to be scrolled to the element on which the method is called.


### Box

This class represents a rectangle area that contains other widgets.

#### Variables

* `children`: `Array[SrdRef[Widget]]`. The array of widgets contained in this class.

#### Operations

##### addChildren

A method to add a new child or more to this box.

parameters:

* `count` number of children we want to add.

* `children` the children we want to add, which are widgets.

##### removeChildren

A method to remove children from this box.

parameters:

* `count` number of children we want to remove.

* `children` the children we want to remove, which are widgets.


### Canvas

This represents an area to be used for free drawing.

#### Variables

* `resourceId`: `ArchInt`. a unique identifier to distinguish each canvas from the other. 

#### Mixins

* `drawing`: `Drawing`. This mixin adds support for drawing operatios to this class. Visit the
  documentation of `Drawing` for details about available operations.

#### Properties

* `bitmapWidth`: `SrdRef[Length]`. The width of the drawing area.

* `bitmapHeight`: `SrdRef[Length]`. The height of the drawing area.


### Image

A class that represents an image.

#### Properties

* `url`: `String`. The URL of the image's source.


### Text

A class for displaying static text.

#### Properties

* `text`: `String`. The text of this component.

* `targetId`: `String`. The identifier of the object that is linked to this text, for example a text
  beside text input field that tell us that this text input is for username.


### Button

Displays a button.

#### Properties

* `text`: `String`. The text we want to show on the button.


### TextInput

A text entry box.

#### Properties

* `text`: `String`. The entered text.

#### Events

##### onChanged

```
def onChanged: DomEventSignal[TextInput, Int];
```

Gets fired when the entered text changes.

##### onKeyPress

```
def onKeyPress: DomEventSignal[TextInput, String];
```

Gets fired when a key is pressed.


##### onKeyUp

```
def onKeyUp: DomEventSignal[TextInput, String];
```

Gets fired when we a keypress ends.


### Input

A user input field.

#### Properties

* `text`: `String`. The entered value.

* `inputType`: `String`. The type of input values.

* `placeholder`: `String`. A value that appears before the user enters anything, to clarify what
  to enter.

#### Events

##### onChanged

```
def onChanged: DomEventSignal[Input, Int];
```

Gets fired when the entered value changes.

##### onKeyPress

```
def onKeyPress: DomEventSignal[Input, String];
```

Gets fired when a key is pressed.

##### onKeyUp

```
def onKeyUp: DomEventSignal[Input, String];
```

Gets fired when we a keypress ends.


### Select

A widget that displays a multi-choice input.

#### Properties

* `items`: `Map[String, String]`. The choices we want the user to choose from.

#### Events

##### onChanged

```
def onChanged: DomEventSignal[Select, Int];
```

Gets fired when the selected value is changed.

#### Operations

##### getSelectedValue

```
handler this.getSelectedValue(): String;
```

Returns the value of the currently selected item.

##### selectValue

```
handler this.selectValue(newValue: String);
```

Changes the current selection.


### Hyperlink

A class that displays a hyperlink.

#### Properties

* `url`: `String`. The address of the target page.

* `child`: `SrdRef[Widget]`. The widget contained in the hyperlink, like a text or an image.

* `newTab`: `Bool`. Determins if the address will be opened in a new tab or the current one.

#### Operations

##### setChild

```
handler this.setChild (child: temp_ref[SrdRef[Widget]]);
```

Sets the child component of this hyperlink.

parameters:

* `child` the widget we want displayed inside the hyperlink.


### DocView

A class used to show an HTML or Markdown document.

#### Operations

##### setHtml

```
handler this.setHtml(html: String);
```

Sets an HTML document as the scene.

##### setMarkdown

```
handler this.setMarkdown(md: String);
handler this.setMarkdown(md: String, linksInNewTab: Bool);
```

Sets a Markdown document as the scene. The second form allows specifying whether hyperlinks in the
document opens in the same browser tab or a new one. The first form opens links in the same tab.


### Browser

An area in which you can view another web page, i.e. an iframe.

#### Properties

* `url`: `String`. The URL of the page to view.

#### Operations

##### postMessage

```
handler this.postMessage(msgType: CharsPtr, msgBody: CharsPtr);
```

Posts an arbitrary message to the window of the loaded site.


## Related Classes

### MouseMovePayload

```
class MouseMovePayload {
    def posX: Float = 0;
    def posY: Float = 0;
    def deltaX: Float = 0;
    def deltaY: Float = 0;
}
```

A class that holds mouse move payload information.

`posX` cursor x coordinate.

`posY` cursor y coordinate.

`deltaX` the change in position on x axis.

`deltaY` the change in position on y axis.


### MouseButtonPayload

```
class MouseButtonPayload {
    def button: Int = 0;
    def posX: Float = 0;
    def posY: Float = 0;
}
```

A class that holds mouse button payload information.

`button` the clicked button.

`posX` cursor x coordinate.

`posY` cursor y coordinate.
